# EECS595-Homeworks
My own homework solutions of EECS595, Natural Language Processing.

## Homeworks List
+ **Homework 1** Part of Speech tagging based on Hidden Markov Model on part of Penn Treebank dataset.
+ **Homework 2** Sentiment Analysis based on DAN(Deep Average Network) and RNN(LSTM).
+ **Homeword 3** A grammar parser based on CKY algorithm.

## Homework 1
### Input
The file `model.pyc` is the complie file of pre-trained HMM model generated by `train.py` using part of Penn Treebank dataset. The file `pos.py` is the main py file. Run `pos.py` in command line
```bash
python pos.py testing_filename testing_with_labels
```
Where `testing_filename` is the name of test set document and `testing_with_labels` is the name of test set ***with labels after the words including pounctuations***. For example, `Hello UH World NN . .`. Both of documents should be on the root directory.

### Output
There is a simple output on terminal of accuracy on your test set.
```bash
The accuracy is 92.29%.
```

## Homework2
### Input
The file `sentiment.py` is the main file. Run `sentiment.py` in two ways
```bash
python sentiment.py
```
In this way, the program will generate two new model based on pre-set parameters, one of them is a DAN model and the other is a RNN model. 
```bash
python sentiment.py model.torch
```
In this way, the program will return the accuracy of test data using the model stored in the `model.torch` file.

### Parameters and Path
This program requires a GloVe pre-train model, which should be in the `glove.6B/` and stored in form `glove.6B.300d.txt`.
The training data and testing data should be in the path `HW2/` and as form `training/pos` or `training/neg`, which store the positive labeld documents and negative labeled document respectively.
The parameters of DAN are set as
```
VEC_DIM = 300
LR = 0.01
ITERATION = 200
BATCH_SIZE = 80
```
The parameter of RNN are set as
```
VEC_DIM = 300
LR = 0.01
ITERATION = 200
BATCH_SIZE = 1
```

### Output
This program will detect the GPU and automaticly choose CPU or GPU to train the model.
```bash
Training will on GPU
```
Then there is a simle output on terminal of accuracy on your test set
```bash
This model has an accuracy 0.8757 on the testing dataset.
```
## Homework3

### Input

Run `Parse.py` in command line
```bash
python Parse.py TestInputFile GrammarFile TextOutputFile
```
The `TextInputFile` is the file name of input with the raw test splited by space. The `GrammarFile` is the file name of grammar structure with form
```
NP -> Det Adj Noun : 93

Verb -> put : 65
```
The number after the grammar/vocabulary rule is the frequency. There is a ***space line*** between Grammar and Vocabulary part. 

### Output

The program will generate a new file called `TextOutputFile` with text form
```
[S [Verb take] [NP [Det the] [Noun block]] [PP [Prep on] [NP [Det the] [Adj green] [Noun circle]]]]
```
representing a grammar tree structure. If the corresponding input is invalid, the output would be `FAIL`

### Test

The default name of testing file is `TestingTree.txt` with text form just like the output. If there is no file called `TestingTree.txt`, the program will output `There is no test file.`. Or it will output the accuracy of the parser on the test dataset like `Accuracy is 60.00% on test data.`
